content/posts/harman-phoenix-200/index.md, before:

---
title: 'Harman Phoenix 200 colour film – first impressions'
date: 2024-01-21T21:27:48+01:00
canonicalURL: ""
draft: false

cover:
    image: images/phoenix200-cover.jpg
    alt: 'A film photo of of autumn leaves and fruits on a tree.'
    caption: ''
description: 'Google description.'
# ShowBreadCrumbs: true
# Show ReadingTime: true
ShowToc: true
tocopen: true

tags: ["Pentax MX", "B&W film"]
# "Mamiya M645" "Mamiya RB67" "Nikon FE2" "Pentax MX" "Pinhole" "Horseman VH-R" "Zeis Ikon Ikoflex"
# "B&W film" "Colour film" "B&W digital" "Colour digital"
categories: []
# "Places in Spain" "Culture" "Walks" "Architecture"

ShowPostNavLinks: true
---
> *Harman Phoenix 200 is a brand-new ISO 200, C41 colour negative film. With high contrast and strong, visible grain, it is characterful, unmistakeably analogue and produces results unlike any other colour film.*

## A new colour film is born

Harman released Phoenix 200 35mm colour film on 1 December 2023. Phoenix 200 is a 35mm colour negative C41 film, described by Harman as:

- High contrast
- Strong visible grain
- Punchy vibrant colours
- Possibility of halation
- Characterful
- Unmistakably analogue

Numerous videos were released on the day the film was released by YouTubers who had received advance rolls of Phoenix 200 to try.

The initial photos that I saw were very variable; a lot of them I just plain didn’t like. That made me curious. Why do the results vary so much? What is this film really like?

> *Harman Phoenix is an experimental, limited-edition film and the first step on our colour journey. Making colour films is very different to black & white and while we have made good progress, we recognise we have a lot more to learn. Please embrace this film for all its quirks and differences.*
>
> Harman Photo

Although I shoot very little colour film, I decided that I had to try this film. I also thought it was exciting that Harman had released a new colour film. Not repackaged, not rebranded, but brand new, developed from scratch. I had to be part of this… so I ordered three rolls.

## The plan

While I waited for the film to arrive, I looked at videos, studied photos and analysed what I liked and what I didn’t like. I had plenty of time because although a delivery time of 48 hours had been quoted, it took two weeks (presumably because of the pre-Christmas rush).

I preferred photos shot with the film rated at 100ish ISO. Simple compositions which filled the frame seemed to work better. But the key appeared to be avoid having the film scanned by a lab. DIY scans usually looked much better. So I ordered a Tetenal Colourtec C41 kit. I was going to do everything myself!

The film and chemistry arrived a few days before Christmas. I loaded my camera and went to shoot my first roll of Phoenix 200 film.

## Roll 1

Film: Harman Phoenix 200 rated at 133 ISO (film roll ref. 367)
Camera: Pentax MX  
Lenses: SMC Pentax-M 1:1.7 50mm and SMC Pentax-M 1:4 75-150mm zoom

***Click on any photo to see a larger version.***

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-1.jpg" 
"Autumnal colour." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film of brown autumn leaves against a blue sky." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-2.jpg" 
"Peeling tree bark." 
"A close-up colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film of tree bark. The bark is scaly and is peeling in places." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-3.jpg" 
"Autumn leaves." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film. A close-up of three brown autumnal leaves." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-5.jpg" 
"Red berries - I think this would have benefited from a longer exposure." 
"A colour film photo of red berries on a tree, shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-6.jpg" 
"Autumnal colours." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film of brown autumnal leaves and fruits against a blue sky" >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-7.jpg" 
"Brown autumnal leaves and fruits." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film of brown autumnal leaves and fruits against a blue sky" >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-9.jpg" 
"In the park." 
"A colour film photo of a climbing frame in the shape of a big letter "M", with a children's play area behind. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-10.jpg" 
"Children's play area in the park. Note: The coloured fence panels were very faded from the bright Spanish sun." 
"A colour film photo of a children's play area in a park. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-11.jpg" 
"Autumnal colour." 
"A colour film photo of brown autumn leaves, looking up a tree. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-12.jpg" 
"Palm tree fronds. I like the way the colours came out on this shot." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film pf two palm tree fronds shot against a blue sky." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-13.jpg" 
"Autumnal browns." 
"A colour film photo of white/brown tree branches and brown autumn leaves. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-14.jpg" 
"Children's play area in the park." 
"A colour film photo of a children's play area in a park. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film" >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-15.jpg" 
"The park." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film. An open space in a park with benches, lamp posts and a children's play area. A branch with golden brown autumnal leaves overhangs the top right corner of the photo." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-16.jpg" 
"The park." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film. An open space in a park with benches, lamp posts and a children's play area. A branch with golden brown autumnal leaves overhangs the top right corner of the photo." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-17.jpg" 
"The belfry." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film. House rooftops and a belfry against a blue sky." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-18.jpg" 
"Palm trees." 
"A colour film photo looking up at two palm trees. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-19.jpg" 
"The old castle tower." 
"A colour film photo of a castle tower with a car park in the foreground. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-20.jpg" 
"White terraced houses on a hill." 
"A colour film photo of white terraced houses on a hill. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-21.jpg" 
"The highlights have blown" 
"A colour film photo of the front doors to two terraced white houses. The render has spalled extensively, and the paint is peeling. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-22.jpg" 
"The blue sky is over-saturated and excessively grainy." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film. A cobbled street leading up to a row of white terraced townhouses." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-23.jpg" 
"Andalucian chimney." 
"A colour film photo of a white chimney with tiled covering roof. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-24.jpg" 
"There is a lot of halation going on around the whites!" 
"A colour film photo of a newly built white house with a terrace to the left. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film" >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-25.jpg" 
"Breaking and entering." 
"A colour film photo of Christmas decorations - Santa breaking in through a window." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-26.jpg" 
"The white balustrade." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film of a couple of steps and a white balustrade in front of a house." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-27.jpg" 
"¡Feliz Navidad!" 
"A colour film photo of Christmas decorations on a front door with the message Feliz Navidad." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-28.jpg" 
"Tree decorations outside." 
"A colour film photo of Christmas decorations in a tree outside. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-29.jpg" 
"Red Christmas bells." 
"A colour film photo of red Christmas bell decorations against a blue sky." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-30.jpg" 
"The front door to number 19." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film. An old timber front door. The house number (19) is above the door. The lower part of the wall is painted green, with peeling paint. The upper part of the wall is white." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-31.jpg" 
"This film does not handle shooting into the sun very well!" 
"A colour film photo of a village square. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-32.jpg" 
"Seat 500 (Fiat 500 made in Spain under licence)." 
"A colour film photo of a parked Audi A3 and Seat 500. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-33.jpg" 
"This photo shows how limited the dynamic range is with blown highlights and no detail in the deep shadows." 
"A colour film photo of a Spanish village bar in a side street. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-34.jpg" 
"Belén de Navidad." 
"A colour film photo of a belén in front of a Christmas tree. The Christmas tree is out of focus and the coloured lights appear as coloured bokeh. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-35.jpg" 
"Belén de Navidad." 
"A colour film photo of a belén in front of a Christmas tree. The Christmas tree is out of focus and the coloured lights appear as coloured bokeh. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-36.jpg" 
"A poinsettia plant in front of a Christmas tree." 
"A colour film photo of a poinsettia plant in front of a Christmas tree. The Christmas tree is out of focus, and the coloured lights appear as coloured bokeh." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-37.jpg" 
"A poinsettia plant in front of a Christmas tree." 
"A colour film photo of a poinsettia plant in front of a Christmas tree. The Christmas tree is out of focus, and the coloured lights appear as coloured bokeh." >}}

## Roll 2


## Conclusions

This film is like no other that I have used. It is:

- Contrasty
- Grainy
- Not very sharp
- Has a limited dynamic range – highlights blow out, and shadows lack detail
- No anti-halation layer

Nevertheless, it is a very interesting film. With careful choice of subject and colour and correct exposure, it is possible to get nice results.

It must be remembered that this is Harman’s first attempt at a colour film and the first newly developed colour film for decades. For that, I applaud them. This is an early release limited edition version; it is still in the experimental stage.

Where it goes from here is crucial. I await with great anticipation what the second release will bring.

Commit message:

about, gear and privacy added

content/posts/harman-phoenix-200/index.md, after:

---
title: 'Harman Phoenix 200 colour film – first impressions'
date: 2024-01-21T21:27:48+01:00
canonicalURL: ""
summary: 'Harman Phoenix 200 is a brand-new ISO 200. See the photos from my first roll and my thoughts about what works and what does not.'
draft: false

cover:
    image: images/phoenix200-cover.jpg
    alt: 'A film photo of of autumn leaves and fruits on a tree.'
    caption: ''
# ShowBreadCrumbs: true
# Show ReadingTime: true
ShowToc: true
tocopen: true

tags: ["Pentax MX", "B&W film"]
# "Mamiya M645" "Mamiya RB67" "Nikon FE2" "Pentax MX" "Pinhole" "Horseman VH-R" "Zeis Ikon Ikoflex"
# "B&W film" "Colour film" "B&W digital" "Colour digital"
categories: []
# "Places in Spain" "Culture" "Walks" "Architecture"

ShowPostNavLinks: true
---
> *Harman Phoenix 200 is a brand-new ISO 200, C41 colour negative film. With high contrast and strong, visible grain, it is characterful, unmistakeably analogue and produces results unlike any other colour film.*

## A new colour film is born

Harman released Phoenix 200 35mm colour film on 1 December 2023. Phoenix 200 is a 35mm colour negative C41 film, described by Harman as:

- High contrast
- Strong visible grain
- Punchy vibrant colours
- Possibility of halation
- Characterful
- Unmistakably analogue

Numerous videos were released on the day the film was released by YouTubers who had received advance rolls of Phoenix 200 to try.

The initial photos that I saw were very variable; a lot of them I just plain didn’t like. That made me curious. Why do the results vary so much? What is this film really like?

> *Harman Phoenix is an experimental, limited-edition film and the first step on our colour journey. Making colour films is very different to black & white and while we have made good progress, we recognise we have a lot more to learn. Please embrace this film for all its quirks and differences.*
>
> Harman Photo

Although I shoot very little colour film, I decided that I had to try this film. I also thought it was exciting that Harman had released a new colour film. Not repackaged, not rebranded, but brand new, developed from scratch. I had to be part of this… so I ordered three rolls.

## The plan

While I waited for the film to arrive, I looked at videos, studied photos and analysed what I liked and what I didn’t like. I had plenty of time because although a delivery time of 48 hours had been quoted, it took two weeks (presumably because of the pre-Christmas rush).

I preferred photos shot with the film rated at 100ish ISO. Simple compositions which filled the frame seemed to work better. But the key appeared to be avoid having the film scanned by a lab. DIY scans usually looked much better. So I ordered a Tetenal Colourtec C41 kit. I was going to do everything myself!

The film and chemistry arrived a few days before Christmas. I loaded my camera and went to shoot my first roll of Phoenix 200 film.

## Roll 1

Film: Harman Phoenix 200 rated at 133 ISO (film roll ref. 367)
Camera: Pentax MX  
Lenses: SMC Pentax-M 1:1.7 50mm and SMC Pentax-M 1:4 75-150mm zoom

***Click on any photo to see a larger version.***

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-1.jpg" 
"Autumnal colour." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film of brown autumn leaves against a blue sky." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-2.jpg" 
"Peeling tree bark." 
"A close-up colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film of tree bark. The bark is scaly and is peeling in places." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-3.jpg" 
"Autumn leaves." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film. A close-up of three brown autumnal leaves." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-5.jpg" 
"Red berries - I think this would have benefited from a longer exposure." 
"A colour film photo of red berries on a tree, shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-6.jpg" 
"Autumnal colours." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film of brown autumnal leaves and fruits against a blue sky" >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-7.jpg" 
"Brown autumnal leaves and fruits." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film of brown autumnal leaves and fruits against a blue sky" >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-9.jpg" 
"In the park." 
"A colour film photo of a climbing frame in the shape of a big letter "M", with a children's play area behind. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-10.jpg" 
"Children's play area in the park. Note: The coloured fence panels were very faded from the bright Spanish sun." 
"A colour film photo of a children's play area in a park. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-11.jpg" 
"Autumnal colour." 
"A colour film photo of brown autumn leaves, looking up a tree. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-12.jpg" 
"Palm tree fronds. I like the way the colours came out on this shot." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film pf two palm tree fronds shot against a blue sky." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-13.jpg" 
"Autumnal browns." 
"A colour film photo of white/brown tree branches and brown autumn leaves. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-14.jpg" 
"Children's play area in the park." 
"A colour film photo of a children's play area in a park. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film" >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-15.jpg" 
"The park." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film. An open space in a park with benches, lamp posts and a children's play area. A branch with golden brown autumnal leaves overhangs the top right corner of the photo." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-16.jpg" 
"The park." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film. An open space in a park with benches, lamp posts and a children's play area. A branch with golden brown autumnal leaves overhangs the top right corner of the photo." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-17.jpg" 
"The belfry." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film. House rooftops and a belfry against a blue sky." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-18.jpg" 
"Palm trees." 
"A colour film photo looking up at two palm trees. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-19.jpg" 
"The old castle tower." 
"A colour film photo of a castle tower with a car park in the foreground. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-20.jpg" 
"White terraced houses on a hill." 
"A colour film photo of white terraced houses on a hill. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-21.jpg" 
"The highlights have blown" 
"A colour film photo of the front doors to two terraced white houses. The render has spalled extensively, and the paint is peeling. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-22.jpg" 
"The blue sky is over-saturated and excessively grainy." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film. A cobbled street leading up to a row of white terraced townhouses." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-23.jpg" 
"Andalucian chimney." 
"A colour film photo of a white chimney with tiled covering roof. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-24.jpg" 
"There is a lot of halation going on around the whites!" 
"A colour film photo of a newly built white house with a terrace to the left. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film" >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-25.jpg" 
"Breaking and entering." 
"A colour film photo of Christmas decorations - Santa breaking in through a window." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-26.jpg" 
"The white balustrade." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film of a couple of steps and a white balustrade in front of a house." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-27.jpg" 
"¡Feliz Navidad!" 
"A colour film photo of Christmas decorations on a front door with the message Feliz Navidad." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-28.jpg" 
"Tree decorations outside." 
"A colour film photo of Christmas decorations in a tree outside. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-29.jpg" 
"Red Christmas bells." 
"A colour film photo of red Christmas bell decorations against a blue sky." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-30.jpg" 
"The front door to number 19." 
"A colour film photo shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film. An old timber front door. The house number (19) is above the door. The lower part of the wall is painted green, with peeling paint. The upper part of the wall is white." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-31.jpg" 
"This film does not handle shooting into the sun very well!" 
"A colour film photo of a village square. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-32.jpg" 
"Seat 500 (Fiat 500 made in Spain under licence)." 
"A colour film photo of a parked Audi A3 and Seat 500. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-33.jpg" 
"This photo shows how limited the dynamic range is with blown highlights and no detail in the deep shadows." 
"A colour film photo of a Spanish village bar in a side street. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-34.jpg" 
"Belén de Navidad." 
"A colour film photo of a belén in front of a Christmas tree. The Christmas tree is out of focus and the coloured lights appear as coloured bokeh. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-35.jpg" 
"Belén de Navidad." 
"A colour film photo of a belén in front of a Christmas tree. The Christmas tree is out of focus and the coloured lights appear as coloured bokeh. Shot on Harman Phoenix 200 film." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-36.jpg" 
"A poinsettia plant in front of a Christmas tree." 
"A colour film photo of a poinsettia plant in front of a Christmas tree. The Christmas tree is out of focus, and the coloured lights appear as coloured bokeh." >}}

{{< postimage "images/roll1-phoenix200-37.jpg" 
"A poinsettia plant in front of a Christmas tree." 
"A colour film photo of a poinsettia plant in front of a Christmas tree. The Christmas tree is out of focus, and the coloured lights appear as coloured bokeh." >}}

## Roll 2


## Conclusions

This film is like no other that I have used. It is:

- Contrasty
- Grainy
- Not very sharp
- Has a limited dynamic range – highlights blow out, and shadows lack detail
- No anti-halation layer

Nevertheless, it is a very interesting film. With careful choice of subject and colour and correct exposure, it is possible to get nice results.

It must be remembered that this is Harman’s first attempt at a colour film and the first newly developed colour film for decades. For that, I applaud them. This is an early release limited edition version; it is still in the experimental stage.

Where it goes from here is crucial. I await with great anticipation what the second release will bring.
